# PolyA RiboD Classifier

RNA sequencing has provided the Treehouse Initiative with a strong analysis of precision cancer treatment targeting by comparative transcriptional analysis instead of solely DNA mutations. Highly translated genes are gateways in a transcriptional pathway for a cancer. Our group uses this analysis to target specific pathways for precision cancer treatment. 

When preparing mRNA, there is a need to remove ribosomal RNA (rRNA), because it is the same machinery that folds into the ribosome for translation in all mRNA. There are two methods that the sources the Treehouse collected from have used: Ribosomal Depletion (riboD), and Poly-adenylation-Selection (polyA). The threshold analysis to identify highly expressed genes within each sample is affected by these two preparations methods. Current methods require that only polyA to be analyzed so the data is not affected by this variable. Another variable, unfortunately, is that the sequencing partners mistakenly report the method they used. Having a classifier that could identify the method the mRNA was prepared based upon the expression data will allow us to avoid that problem. 

This project makes a rough classification based on highly variable genes using a Logistic Regression model from scikit learn, trained from . The future of this project will make an informed analysis based on known pathways, and remove tissue specific and genes only necessary for self-fitness. Along side this solution is a separate project to normalize riboD gene expression to that of polyA gene expression to control for the preparation method variable. Ultimately, the 179 riboD samples will be transformed to be comparable to polyA.
